Docs 5417 choice example v4.2 (#943)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/choice-router-concept.adoc

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:page-aliases: general:getting-started:content-based-routing.adoc, choice-router-xml-reference.adoc

The Choice router dynamically routes messages through a flow according to a set of DataWeave expressions that evaluate message content. Each expression is associated with a different routing option. The effect is to add conditional processing to a flow, similar to an `if`/`then`/`else` code block in most programming languages.

> .Schematic diagram of a Choice router with three options, one being the default option

Reviewer: Add dot at the end _one being the default option._

image::component-choice-schematic.png[Choice Router Schematic]

== Example Project

You can use Anypoint Studio to download the example project _Content-Based Routing_ from Anypoint Exchange. This project presents a working example of a flow that uses the Choice router.

image::mruntime-choice-example.png[choice-router-example]

> 

Reviewer: Add a caption to the previous image.

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:page-aliases: general:getting-started:content-based-routing.adoc, choice-router-xml-reference.adoc

The Choice router dynamically routes messages through a flow according to a set of DataWeave expressions that evaluate message content. Each expression is associated with a different routing option. The effect is to add conditional processing to a flow, similar to an `if`/`then`/`else` code block in most programming languages.

.Schematic diagram of a Choice router with three options, one being the default option
image::component-choice-schematic.png[Choice Router Schematic]

== Example Project

You can use Anypoint Studio to download the example project _Content-Based Routing_ from Anypoint Exchange. This project presents a working example of a flow that uses the Choice router.

.Flow with a Choice router with three options, one being the default option
image::mruntime-choice-example.png[choice-router-example]

To download and open this example project:

> 

Reviewer 2: Reformat the following list items as steps instead (chronological).

* Click the Exchange icon (image:mruntime-exchange-icon.png[3%, 3%]) in Anypoint Studio.
* In the left panel, click *All assets*.

> * In the window that opens, log into Anypoint Exchange and search project: _Content-Based Routing_.

Reviewer 2: GLOBAL:  log into > log in to

Reviewer 2: Remove colon, too:
```suggestion
* In the window that opens, log in to Anypoint Exchange and search for the example project Content-Based Routing.
```

> * Click Open (image:mruntime-open-exchange-icon.png[6%, 6%]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Click the Open icon (image:mruntime-open-exchange-icon.png[6%, 6%]).
```

* The default routing option
* The processing that the flow performs for each routing option

== Example XML

> Following is the XML code of the previous Choice router example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Following is the XML code for the Choice router example:
```

		<http:listener config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/" doc:name="Listener" />
		<set-variable variableName="language" value="#[attributes.queryParams.language]" doc:name="Set Variable" />
    <!-- START OF CHOICE BLOCK-->
		<choice doc:name="Choice" >
			<when expression="#[vars.language == 'Spanish']" >
				<set-payload value="Hola!" doc:name="Reply in Spanish" />
			</when>
			<when expression="#[vars.language == 'French']" >
				<set-payload value="Bonjour!" doc:name="Reply in French" />
			</when>
			<otherwise>
				<flow-ref name="reply-in-default-languageSub_Flow" doc:name="reply-in-default-languageSub_Flow" />
			</otherwise>
		</choice>
    <!-- END OF CHOICE BLOCK-->
		<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Log the reply" message='#["The reply $(payload) means hello in $(vars.language)" ]'/>
	</flow>
  <sub-flow name="reply-in-default-languageSub_Flow" >
		<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger" message="No language specified. Using English as a default. "/>
		<set-variable variableName="language" value="English" doc:name="Set Language to English" />
		<set-payload value="Hello!" doc:name="Reply in English" />
	</sub-flow>
</mule>
----

== Choice Router XML Reference

> A Choice flow control component follows the structure described below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Choice flow control component contains these elements:
```

* A single root element `<choice>`

> * A `<when>` child element for each routing option, each with an expression to match.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A `<when>` child element for each routing option, each with an expression to match
```

> * Optionally, an `<otherwise>` child element of choice, that handles all cases where none of the expressions on the `<when>` elements evaluate to True.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Optionally, an `<otherwise>` child element of Choice that handles all cases where none of the expressions on the `<when>` elements are true
```

> * Components that are conditionally executed under each of the choices are defined as child elements of the `when` and `otherwise` elements.

Reviewer 2: Not a peer list item:
```suggestion
Components that are conditionally executed under each of the choices are defined as child elements of the `when` and `otherwise` elements.
```

=== Properties of <choice>

[%header,cols="30,70"]
|===
|Property |Description

> | Business Events a| For activating the Business Events feature. For example: +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Business Events a| For activating the Business Events feature: +
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<choice doc:name="Choice" tracking:enable-default-events="true" >
----
|===

=== Properties of <when>

[%header,cols="30,70"]
|===
|Property |Description

> | Expression (`expression`) a| Expression in DataWeave language to evaluate input. If the expression evaluates to `true`, this routing option is used. For example: +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Expression (`expression`) a| Expression in DataWeave language to evaluate input
If the expression evaluates to `true`, this routing option is used: +
```
